Step 1: Sign in to AWS Management Console
Go to AWS Console.

Sign in with your AWS account credentials.

Step 2: Navigate to EC2 Dashboard
In the AWS Management Console, type "EC2" in the search bar and select EC2 under Services.

Step 3: Launch an EC2 Instance
On the EC2 Dashboard, click Launch Instance to start the process of creating a new EC2 instance.

Step 4: Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
Select an AMI (pre-configured template of the OS). You can choose from:

Amazon Linux 2

Ubuntu

Windows Server

Other custom AMIs

For example, select Amazon Linux 2 AMI and click Select.

Step 5: Choose an Instance Type
AWS provides different instance types depending on the resources you need.

For basic usage, you can choose t2.micro (free tier eligible if you are within the free usage limits).

Select your preferred instance type and click Next: Configure Instance Details.

Step 6: Configure Instance Details
Configure the instance settings like the number of instances, network settings, and subnet.

For basic setup, leave the defaults and click Next: Add Storage.

Step 7: Add Storage
By default, your instance will come with an 8 GB EBS volume (root storage).

You can add more volumes or change the size if needed.

Click Next: Add Tags once done.

Step 8: Add Tags (Optional)
You can add tags to your instance to easily identify it later.

For example, add a tag with the key Name and value MyFirstInstance.

Click Next: Configure Security Group when you're ready.

Step 9: Configure Security Group
A Security Group acts as a virtual firewall for your EC2 instance.

Select Create a new security group.

Add rules for SSH (port 22) for Linux or RDP (port 3389) for Windows.

You can restrict access to specific IPs or allow 0.0.0.0/0 for all IPs (not recommended for production).

Click Review and Launch when ready.

Step 10: Review and Launch
Review all your instance settings.

If everything looks good, click Launch.

Step 11: Select a Key Pair
A Key Pair is required to connect to your instance.

Choose Create a new key pair, give it a name (e.g., MyKeyPair), and click Download Key Pair.

Make sure to download and save the key file (.pem) as you won’t be able to download it again.

Once the key is saved, click Launch Instances.

Step 12: Access Your EC2 Instance
After launching the instance, go to Instances in the EC2 dashboard.

Select your instance, and note the Public IP or Public DNS (IPv4).

For SSH (Linux/Mac):
Open your terminal and run the following command:

bash
Copy
Edit
ssh -i /path/to/your-key-pair.pem ec2-user@<Public-IP>
For Windows (RDP):
Download and open an RDP client, enter the Public IP and use the username Administrator.

You will need the password, which you can retrieve by clicking Get Windows Password in the EC2 console and using your downloaded key pair.

Step 13: Done!
Your EC2 instance is now running and ready for use!